# Workflow

Our workflow is lean and aims to support project teams rather than stand in the
way. It facilitates asynchronous communication and does not rely on any
particular tools.

## Issues

We work in 1 or 2 week long [iterations](../../process) and break all change
requests down into issues. A list of well-prepared and well-understood issues
constitutes each iteration.

As an issue is started to be worked on, the respective team member(s) will
self-assign it (not all issue trackers allow assigning issues to more than one
person at once so if multiple engineers collaborate on an issue, they might have
to choose one to assign it to). Issues are only assigned once work on them is
actually started - we do no pre-assign issues during planning or after that to
avoid situations where already assigned but not yet started issues are blocked
for everyone else to work on. If an issue is being worked on by multiple team
members sequentially (e.g. first the designer for preparing the wireframes, then
the engineer for implementing those), the latter team member will self-assign
the issue once the former are done with their work.

Although issues should be well-understood and well-prepared before they are even
planned for a particular [iteration](../../process), for more complex issues it
is often beneficial to prepare them further before starting implementation. For
these kinds of issues, the first step is to break them down into smaller,
concrete steps (which is often a great thing to do in a
[pairing session](./engineering/#pairing)).

Once an issue is resolved via a [pull request](./engineering/#feature-branches)
or if it is blocked, the engineer(s) will self-assign another issue from the
iteration backlog. If an issue is blocked and cannot progress, the engineers
working on it contact the [iteration lead](../../process) who - in collaboration
with whomever necessary - tries to resolve the impediment.

All discussions around an issue should happen on the particular issue's page. Of
course at times it is convenient to have discussions in person or over online
chat but even in those cases, a brief summary of the discussed points and the
outcome should be posted on the issue. This is a necessity for distributed teams
and allows everyone access to all of the context of a particular issue at any
time. Even teams that are not distributed benefit from this practice as all
information that is relevant to a particular issue is and remains available for
everyone interested.

## Communication

Communication is key for a successful project team - be it distributed or not.
In order for communication to be beneficial for both the team culture as well as
productivity, rather than a liability or cause of constant stress, all team
members needs to keep some basic rules in mind:

- be responsive: don't leave anyone hanging with unanswered questions or
  requests. It goes a long way in keeping working relations positive, and
  communication effective. Respond to online chat messages within reasonable
  time, ensure you have notifications set up properly so you see when somebody
  mentions you in a discussion or asks for your feedback
- take your focus time: while some people can respond to any notification that
  reaches them immediately and still stay focussed on the task they're working
  on, this is not everyone's most effective way of working. Feel free to take
  your focus time and switch off or ignore all notifications in order to focus
  on a particular task. Just make sure to check whether anything urgent came up
  a few times a day. On the flip side, when reaching out to a team member, be
  asynchronous as much as possible. Give people time to finish what they're
  focused on, and to respond properly. Very rarely is anything so urgent to
  warrant full interruption.
- take advantage of rich media: screenshots, screen recordings, screenshares or
  even hand-drawn sketches can contribute to better understanding of what you're
  trying to show or describe. A screen recording of a delivered feature is
  always a hit. During calls, switch on your camera so people can see you -
  talking face to face rather than with audio only makes a big difference in
  communication style.

## [Engineering Workflow](./engineering)

## [Design Workflow](./design)
