# Consulting Project Flow

In consulting projects, we work closely with our clients' in-house product
teams, making them more productive and increasing the quality of their output.

## Engineering Introduction

Consulting projects typically happen within pre-existing team structures,
pre-existing software infrastructure and often touch on existing applications
and systems. Since our consultants must know and understand all of this context,
they require further introduction beyond the business side of things that was
explained to them during the project kick-off. Concretely, they need to
understand:

- how the client's in-house team is organized and what the engineering process
  is (if a process is lacking, we're happy to introduce the team to our
  [process](./../../process))
- what the engineering infrastructure looks like - versioning, issue tracker,
  CI/CD, staging systems etc.
- what the overall system architecture is (DB, message buses, API servers,
  client apps etc.) - like the introduction to the basics of the client's
  business, this might not necessarily be directly relevant to our consultants
  on a daily basis but is valuable context information that enables them to make
  better decisions and priorities
- the architecture and inner structure of the application(s) they will directly
  be working with (this goes beyond the high level overview of the overall
  system architecture)

### Review

In many consulting projects, our consultants will directly work on one or more
pre-existing applications. To be able to do that in the most effective and
productive way, they need to have a good understanding of these apps, their
potential quirks and specialities. While they receive an introduction to the
code as part of the engineering introduction, it is usually well invested time
for our consultants to spend a few more days looking at things in more details,
setting up the local development environment etc. until they are really familiar
with the codebase(s) and ready to go.

As our consultants are doing that, we recommend they also take a little bit of
extra time and review the codebase, compiling a list of findings along the way.
That way, we don't only double the value our clients get out of these few days
but we are also often able to uncover current or potential future problems with
the codebase that previously went unnoticed. For each of the findings, our
consultants will give an explanation, possible path forward and recommended
priority. The findings document will be presented to and discussed with the
client's engineering team in a meeting to ensure everyone fully understands each
of the findings and together with the client's team we will define a path
forward.

After the initial phase, we go on to Team Augmentation or delivering a
particular project for the client.

## Team Augmentation

In team augmentation projects, our consultants merge with the client's in-house
product team. They will integrate with the client's internal organizational
structure like any internal employees for four days a week (as we reserve 1 day
per week for our open source contributions). They of course bring all of their
know-how and experience to the team and will increase the team's velocity and
quality of output.

#### Regular on-site time

Our consultants are distributed and we work with our clients remotely. Since
team augmentation projects require close collaboration between our consultants
and the client's team, which is greatly made more efficient by having
established a personal relation, we recommend for our consultants to spend some
time on-site with the client's team on a regular basis (a good interval seems to
be a few days every 6 weeks). Ideally, our consultants would also spend the
first week of the project on-site for a smoother start.

### Leveling up

## Project Delivery

### Milestones

### Handover
