# Closing Notes

Different teams face different challenges and the techniques that work great for
one team might not work at all for another one. That is why instead of focussing
on any precise tasks and tools, we focused on the underlying values and
techniques that are independent of any particular tools or organizational
structure. Whether you are running a small team of only a few people or a large
organization, whichever of the plethora of tools for organizing software teams
you are using, you should be able to adopt the techniques presented in this
book.

We hope that reading this served as an inspiration for addressing some of the
problems you and your team might be facing and rethinking the techniques you are
practicing or might be missing.

## An evolving Document

This book is the result of experience we made over the course of many years
working on many different projects. We did not know everything we present here
up-front but only discovered and formalized the techniques as we went through
problems that we needed solutions for to ensure things would go smoother the
next time. That learning process will continue and as that happens will we
update this book. We might also add content on completely new topics that we are
not covering at all in the moment like hiring or effective and enjoyable
communication.

Keep an eye on [https://simplabs.com/playbook](https://simplabs.com/playbook)
for updates.

## Feedback

If you have any feedback regarding the book and the techniques we presented, we
would love to hear it. Are particular parts of the book not clear? Did we miss
anything that is critical to you and your team? Did you run into any problems
while adopting our process or had great success that you would share with us?

Send us an email at playbook@simplabs.com.
