# Conception Workflow

When drafting concepts for effective software solutions, we work closely with
our clients in a series of workshops to ensure we are building an application
that solves the right problem in the right way. Our clients have unique
expertise around their business, market and users and we help them translate
those into a concrete application concept.

While applying a systematic approach to develop a good understanding of what
will be built, we intentionally keep the conception phase limited and don't do
excessively detailed up-front design. Instead, we aim for a quick transition to
the execution stage in which we turn the concept into a usable application which
serves as a much better foundation for all subsequent discussions among the
project stakeholders than any concept could do.

## Personas Workshop

Understanding who the future users of the application will be is a critically
important step for developing a good concept. Their prior knowledge, skills,
needs, and motivations will affect all aspects of the application. By defining
one or more key personas representing typical users of the application, we can
base all subsequent conceptional work on those in a user-centered approach.

Identifying and describing the personas should not be done based on assumptions
but instead leverage previous research, data gathered from analytics or other
systems like CRM or customer service systems or feedback received from users
directly. If no such data exists, we can help clients to conduct the necessary
research or set up tracking in existing systems in order not to go ahead while
lacking the necessary foundation and potentially going in the wrong direction.

### Activities

It is important for all project stakeholders to be involved in this meeting as
everyone will have unique insights, experiences and expectations regarding
existing as well as prospective customers and users. All of these thoughts must
be represented so no crucial information is missed. The participants identify
typical users in an open discussion, asking questions like:

- why are they interested in the in the solution?
- what problem do they have that we are trying to solve?
- what previous experience do they have in relation to the solution?
- what motivates them?
- what will make the solution appealing for them?

After having identified these typical users, they are grouped based on common
characteristics. Using information gathered during previous research, the groups
are validated against known facts, analytics data, interviews, etc. Once
validated, the groups are named and ranked by importance to support a decision
on which groups should be prioritized according to business goals. If a group
fails to be validated, it needs to either be removed from the list of personas
or be modified or potentially split up into several smaller groups.

For each persona we prepare a one page overview with a description of their
attributes, goals, behaviors, and motivations as well as some typical scenarios
in which they would use the application to be built.

### User Journey Workshop

For an effective solution to be developed, we need to be able to determine the
content and the tasks that will make it up. The result of the User Journey
Workshop is a scope and sequence of the content and tasks that will make up the
solution. Typically, this will take the form of an outline or a visual
representation, such as a flowchart.

#### What is needed for this workshop

An overview of the existing screens or functionality should be provided for this
workshop. These can be presented in as roadmaps, wireframes, flowcharts,
funnels, or any other artifact that explicitly depicts the existing or potential
user journeys.

#### What will happen during the workshop

- **Task Inventory**

Identify the tasks relevant to the problem and describe them in detail.

- **Sequencing Tasks and Task Components**

Determine the order, content and sub-tasks that must occur in order to
succesfully complete a goal. Start with the major goals and work the way down to
sub-tasks that are associated with it. This can be done by sketching on a
whiteboard or by placing sticky notes to form a diagram.

- **Map all the tasks into a journey**

Compile all the goals, tasks and steps into a single map. If more than one
persona exists, then create a journey map for each.

### KPIs Workshop

**Defining metrics of success**

Establishing outcome metrics should be done before the project starts. If
metrics aren't set early in the process, we end up looking for data that fits
the result in a later stage, when modifications are no longer possible or
expensive. Instead, we could have used them during the project to generate
optimal results and adjust accordingly.

This step could be its own workshop as we'd need them to describe what their
success factors are so that the solution will be aligned with them. By doing
this, it will be easier to prioritize work on future iterations based on metric
performance.

(This also helps simplabs to better communicate the impact of our work for
future case studies)

**Example of KPIs**

- Task success rate
- Time-on-task
- User error rate
- System usability scale
- Customer Satisfaction scale
- Churn Rate

**What will happen during this workshop?**

- **Goals and objectives are defined**

What do we aim to change? E.g., turn existing users into customers.

- **Critical success factors are identified**

What are the expected effects of that change? How much should they change so
that we observe an effect?

E.g., 15% more users subscribe to a premium plan during their first 3 months

- **Rationale, historical data, analytics**

Why do we think those changes will happen? What evidence do we have for that?

- **How will the measures be collected**

How can we measure the effect? What are the leading indicators that we need to
track?

### Ideation Activities

### Define scope or starting point

Based on the previous activities, we decide on a starting point and scope for
the ideation. It might be useful to check for existing solutions or similar
problems. Not everything needs to be solved at once, so we'll probably want to
split the ideation into multiple manageable parts.

### Prototyping

We create prototypes to represent each use case or sometimes several use cases
to form a representation of the complete solution. This is where all is combined
into a prototype of the solution. This will become the basis for planning and
implementation. While not all the prototypes will be implemented, they will
serve as a collection of all the learning and insights acquired during the
conceptual design phase.

### Brand and Visual Language Session

The client gives us an introduction to their brand, existing brand material, and
visual guidelines. Based on this, we might or might not need to develop a new
visual language, but instead find opportunities to improve the existing one.

We need to understand where the existing visual language exists and the risks
and costs associated with changes.

### Assessing the effectiveness of the Visual Design System

If the visual design of the existing solution is not built on a solid
foundation, we might find that technical and design debt is generated as we
implement the new solution, causing the project to slow down. We want to avoid
shipping one-off visual design solutions, but instead agree on a path forward
with the client before executing any design.

#### Visual Design System dependencies

Based on the complexity and extent of a project, we might encounter that the
existing visual design system is dependent on complementary systems such as
branding or identity. In this case, the client needs to provide the guidelines
and rules in the form of documentation that can be applied clearly.

#### Visual Identity Evaluation

We can uncover conflicts that exist between the visual identity and user or
business needs. If for example, we have revealed that a lack of trust is
blocking users from signing up, we might consider the brand elements effect on
the user experience.

#### Visual Design System Evaluation (usability, accessibility)

In the case where the solution is an improvement to an existing app or website,
we must ensure that the current visual design complies with our functional
requirements and design specifications. A detailed evaluation of the existing
visual style will be conducted to identify possible issues that might impact the
quality of the solution. A quality solution should consist of a visual style
that is intuitive, easy to understand by anyone, and consistent throughout the
entire design.

Based on the result of the evaluation the following are possible:

- **The client doesn't need a complete visual redesign, but instead, we need to
  adapt the design system components to fit his visual language.**
- **The client needs a redesign that will solve the problems identified during
  the evaluation.**

### Designing the Visual Design System

The Visual Design System should provide standards for the solution's visual look
and feel based on the visual exploration conducted on the previous step. Fonts,
color schemes, layout specifications should all be part of the visual design
system.
